## 正文（第三版）

What makes a smart device intelligent? This question poped in my mind when I read the robot novel of Asimov. Since then, I start to think about the working principle of various smart devices. 

Once my remote control car was broken, I disassembled it and was immedieately attrctied by the complex PCB and various chips. I was desire to understand the functions of various chips in PCB and how it drives the motor. After graduation from high school, driven by a strong interest in electronic engineering and interdisciplinary studies, I chose the Automation major at Harbin Institute of Technology (Shenzhen), which has a strong engineering background.




What's the basic software and hardware principles and control theories of all kinds of electronic devices? This is the main content of my undergraduate study.

After learning the analog and digital eletronics, I designed and soldered a  PCB of a buck-boost converter and got familiar with the basic process hardware design. When it came to control theories, I caculated and analyzed the frequency response of a control system with linear algebra. I also wrote some matlab scipts to do the simulation, which improved my ability of math and programming. With all those fundation above, I deployed some machine vision algorithms on the ROS robot platform, which achieved the color recognition and target tracking. With a theoritical beckground in AI, I also implemented a U-net network with pytorch and the model showed 90% recognition accuracy.


What fascinates me more is the process of giving intelligence to a device myself rather than just understanding the working principle. So I participated in many projects and competitions.


In my freshman year, I participated in a project of a smart bicycle computer. Due to our lackness of related develop experience, we refered to manual and had to learn from the ground up. I was responsible for the driver required by GPS module, bluetooth module and e-paper module. We finally made a bike computer with speed display, fall detection, GPS positioning and 10h battery life. During the project, I went through the whole process of hardware and software development, which profoundly strengthened my interest and passion for Electronics Engineering. Since then, I began to participate in more projects and competitions, learned the PCB design and often explored open-source repositories on GitHub. Impressed by the open-source projects, I realized that I was not content with a merely funtional device. A well designed and optimized one was what I aspired to create.

In my junior year, I participated in a logistics handling robot competition. At that time, I already had hands-on experience with hardware and software development process, which made me the main developer of the robot. Beside the fundamental functions, standardization and extensibility were my priorities during the development to make the robot a real product. In hardware, I designed a 10*10cm STM32 expansion board embedded with buck converters,TTL-to-485 module,power supply interface, motor and servo interfaces, wireless relay switch and debugger. The board was small enough to be placed in a 30 x 30 x 30 cm robot and stable enough to drive the stepper motors and digital servos while minimizing signal interference. For software design, I developed a position-velocity closed-loop control algorithm for the robot based on the yaw gyroscope and motor encoder. The robot achieved cm-level positioning accuracy with the algorithm and smooth omnidirectional movement with Mecanum wheels. The robot was also equipped with a robotic arm that can receive feedback through OpenCV detection results from a camera  and palletize materials in a millimeter accuracy by PID control. I then designed a software module management framework and implemented error handling for many cases. To make it easier for further development, I introduced git for version control and wrote some code documentation. In the competition, out robot functioned stably and won us a fifth place in the national finals.

In this project, not only did I apply the knowledge I learned for the reality but also I gained a deeper understanding of product development, teamwork, and project management. I began to realized that a sucess intelligent product is not the simple stack of hardware and software, but a organic integration of software algorithms, hardware design, and systems engineering thinking. This systematic engineering mindset has since become my core methodology for furture study and work.

As the end of my junior year, my future vision becomes more clear: "Make the device more intelligent". When finishing the projects above, I had a deeper insight into my own engineering skills. During robot debugging, I noticed that traditional PID control had troubles in dealing with sudden load changes and non-linear mechanical friction. In order to achieve a more stable control performance, more complex control methods such as MPC is necessary. Similarly, when it came to PCB design, while I can satisfied basic power and signal transmission requirements, I still lacked systematic learning about high-speed signal integrity and signal isolation. Willing to study in a more international academic environment to get a broaden horizon, I seek an atmosphere where different ideas clash and create new insights. Hong Kong, a "East Meets West" metropolis perfectly satisfies my requirements. 


